[MUSIC]
So we have taken a swift look
at the search strategy.
Training of a classifier on our several
features is not a big deal, usually.
However, let's take a look at
additional constraints that are imposed
on the classifier so that it could
be used for such an analysis.
So there are two considerations
we have to keep in mind.
The first one is called uniformity.
So the correlation between
classifier prediction and
mass can lead to false peaks
which spoil event counting.
So as you see on the picture,
if you have a blue distribution and
then you apply some kind of classifier
that is correlated with a mass,
then you might get
a green distribution that
is roughly the same on the region,
side bend regions.
But at the center where you're
expecting to get a mass of
mother particle, you get a peak.
And sometimes this peak might
be just to the features or
just to internal properties of
a classifier with no physical motivation.
And the second restrictions
that we have to keep
in mind is that training
data set that we used for
a signal is fully represented by
simulated events and background is real.
So when we train a classifier,
signal versus background,
we don't know exactly if the features or
if the classifier has
learned something specific to
signal versus background,
or Monte Carlo versus real.
So those aspects can also
introduce a bias in our counting.
So let's take a uniformity,
take a look at uniformity.
Here you have on the top
right the distribution
of two variables for
example prediction in the mass.
And on the left bottom,
you will have even numbers that represent
the distribution of
the events in the beans
of mass with certain predictions given
global threshold of true positive rate, for
example, 0.1, 0.3, 0.5, etc.
So in case of nonuniform distribution or
nonuniform distribution
of predictions versus mass,
in a joined distribution
picture you see something that
is displayed on the top right,
and you can see it more
distinctly on the levels picture.
So basically when you apply a classifier
that gives true positive rate given
specific number like 0.1,
which is depicted by blue.
And then you see what is the actual
fraction of the dataset that
is selected by this threshold
on a given range on a mass axis.
So when you block those
colorful numbers and
you see there are peaks that correspond
though there is not uniformity.
How can you measure this non-uniformity?
So if you introduce a mass window and
you compare distribution in this
mass window with a global
distribution in your data set,
which is depicted on this
figure by blue points.
You can plot a marginal distribution like
you see on the right side of this picture.
The blue and yellow has histograms.
So since those are pretty much
aligned with each other it means that
the distribution in
the mass window is more or
less the same as distribution of
predictions in the whole data set.
And in case you have some discrepancies
or if you have some correlations
between predictions and
the mass,
those marginal distributions will differ.
So as a measure to non-uniformity,
we can introduce Cramer-von Mises test,
which is an integral characteristic
that integrates the difference in
CDFs into distributions like in
the mass region and the whole data set.
And we compute this formula
over all possible regions or
some set of regions in the mass scale,
in the mass window.
So uniformity check that relies on this
measure can work in the following manner.
So first we confirm that
random predictions and
mass can be considered
independent variables.
And we assume a null-hypothesis,
that mass and predictions are independent.
Then we generate distribution of CvM value
under null-hypothesis by repeating
many times the following steps.
First, we generate random predictions and
we compute CvM value.
And then we can choose a p-value and
compute corresponding value
of Cramer-von Mises test.
So the basic approach that thesis
used to deal with correlation
of predictions of classifier
with the mass is pretty simple.
So we remove the features in the training
sample that introduce such correlation.
We know that momentum, or
if we have several particles,
momenta of those particles
can give us a hint about
the mass of the particle or
mass of those particles.
So we can omit those features.
So it is simple and it works.
But removing those features can
lessen the power of classifier.
So the question is can we modify
machine learning algorithm that
still uses all the features but
provides uniform predictions with
regard to background or with regard
to signal allowing the mass axis.
So let's recap a gradient
boosting algorithm.
So it is an approach that greatly
builds an ensemble of estimators.
So here the small is just a tree and
we have an ensemble
of those trees weighted
by some coefficient.
And this approach minimizes given loss
function, and functions could differ.
For example, Mean Squared Error is
the one you have in the middle,
or AdaLoss, that is used for
AdaBoost, or LogLoss,
which is used in many different cases,
in different classifiers.
Each term in the ensemble approximate
the residuals between true value of
the function that we want to predict and
all preceding terms predicting it.
So one approach is called
uniform boosting or uBoostBDT.
BDT stands for Boosted Decision Trees.
So if we aim to get certain false positive
rate at the region that
equals to a certain constant.
So at first, we fix the target efficiency.
For example, we want to get 30% there and
find corresponding threshold for
the classifier.
Then we train a tree with
its decision function, d(x).
And increase weight for
misclassified items, events.
And then increase weight of
background events in the regions with
high false positive rate,
according to the formula on this line.
So following this procedure,
we achieve the false
positive rate in this region and
we can repeat it for all regions.
So it works but
it is a little bit computationally hungry.
A little simpler approach is
based on gradient boosting.
So why don't we minimize
CvM with gradient descent?
So the problem is that we can't
compute the gradient of this formula.
But we can make an approximation of CvM
according to the formula on the slide and
for this formula we actually
can compute derivative.
And for this we can modify the loss
function according to the formula but
also we add this LFL with some coefficient
to the loss function of Adiboost.
And this actually works pretty nicely.
So you see three examples.
So on the left part of the slide you see
Adiboost and those levels of efficiencies.
And you see that side bands
are inclined pretty heavily.
So don't disregard middle points
because there should be no point,
it goes to zero for no physical reasons.
Just consider the angles at which side
bands levels, go to the central region.
Uboost is a bit better, and
the winner is UGB+FL so,
it's faster, and also it allows for
tradeoff between quality and
uniformity by tuning parameter alpha.
Another approach that you
can take into account for
this problem is based on
adversarial neural networks.
The first one is adversarial
decorrelation introduced by a paper,
Chase Shim and his colleagues.
So the idea is that you
build a classifier.
And on top of this classifier
you introduce another algorithm
adversary network that takes into
account how well it can reconstruct
the dependency between prediction
of their original classifier.
With mass or with other feature
that you want to decorrelate.
So to make it work, they also
added some gradient scaling layer
to increase the gradient passing
through this adversary part.
And signal events are given
zero weight in adversary loss.
So it basically works.
So you see an example
from their presentation,
the red distribution is predictions of
just original traditional neural network.
And the black ones are the distribution
of predictions of the network
that has been trained adversarially
according to the previous scheme.
And the quality of the second
network is roughly the same as
the quality of the original one.
And on this slide you have
a little more generic
scheme that the previous
was just the example of.
In this adversarial part of the network,
they reconstruct parameters of
the distribution that we want to avoid.
And in case we see this distribution
in the output of adversarial part,
we punish the original network.